.TH JMDCURSES 1
.SH NAME
JMdcurses \- A console Japanese-English dictionary
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jmdcurses
[\fB-j\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB--jmdict\fR=FILE\fR]
[\fB-k\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB--kjdict\fR=FILE\fR]
[\fB-c\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB--cache\fR=FILE\fR]
[\fB-r\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB--tagfile\fR=FILE\fR]
[\fB-h\fR]
[\fB--help\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
JMdcurses is a console Japanese-English dictionary with typeahead bidirectional queries and custom study lists (including flashcards). JMdcurses is written in Python, and features a curses interface and VI-like key bindings. For the words and translations JMdcurses uses the JMDict/EDICT and KANJIDIC2 dictionaries, property of the Electronic Dictionary Research and Development Group.

Up to date dictionary files must be separately downloaded. Two files are required, the Japanese-English dictionary JMdict_e.gz and the kanji dictionary kanjidic2.xml.gz. By default JMDcurses looks for these files in the working directory. The dictionaries are indexed and cached to a configurable location. See below how to alter the search paths. Currently no configuration files are used or created, so the settings must be explicitly provided as command line options.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IP "\fB-j\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB--jmdict\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Location of the JMdict_e xml.gz [default: ./JMdict_e.gz]
.TP
.IP "\fB-k\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB--kjdict\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Location of the KANJIDIC2 xml.gz [default: ./kanjidic2.xml.gz]
.TP
.IP "\fB-c\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB--cache\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Location of the index cache [default: /tmp/jmdcurses.bin]. The file is automatically created.
.TP
.IP "\fB-r\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB--tagfile\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Location of the tag file [default: ./jmdcurses.tags.bin]. The file is automatically created.
.TP
.IP "\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR"
Show help screen and exit

.SH KEY BINDINGS
.SS GENERAL
.TP
.BR j
Move down in the list / Next item
.TP
.BR k
Move up in the list / Previous item
.TP
.BR h
Return to search mode
.TP
.BR l
View dictionary entry / Reveal readings and translations when in flashcard mode / Show tag list contents (tag browser)
.TP
.BR q
Quit jmdcurses

.SS SEARCH MODE and ENTRY VIEW
.TP
.BR "Space, t"
Tag the dictionary entry, ie. add it to the list of the currently set tag
.TP
.BR T
Tag to the predefined "favorites" list
.TP
.BR X
Clear all tags
.TP
.BR r
Enter flashcard mode for the currently visible word list. The word order is randomized and displayed one item at a time. Use \fBj, k\fR to navigate, and \fBl\fR to show the hidden content.
.TP
.BR i
Enter insert mode to type queries. Wildcards * and ? for queries in Japanese are also supported. Use \fB^C\fR, \fBEscape\fR or \fBEnter\fR to return. Start the query with ":" to type a command (see below).
.TP
.BR e
Open the tag (word list) browser
.TP
.BR E
Show only words with the currently set tag

.SS TAG BROWSER
.TP
.BR y
Point the tag to this list
.TP
.BR p
Copy (and append) the selected list to the list of the currently set tag. If there is no list associated with the current tag, a new one will be created.
.TP
.BR x
Delete the selected list.
.TP
.BR i
Return to search mode and move to insert.

.SH COMMANDS
A command is entered by starting the query with ":" and finishing with \fBEnter\fR.
.IP "tag [string]"
Set the current tag to [string]

